[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, it's James here
from "Food Matters."
And I'm here with a
friend who I met actually
about five years ago,
we just calculated,
at an event in Mexico, and
she is a number-one New York
Times best seller.
And I would best describe
her as a modern-day spiritual
superwoman.
This lady's books have
helped me and my mother,
who mostly steals them
off me before I read them,
realign a lot of our
thoughts and beliefs
to connect more with
spirit, and connect
with the ultimate
power of the universe,
and know that the
universe has your back.
She is an awesome
teacher, and it's
a pleasure to speak
with her to learn more
about her life and her lessons.
Gabby, hey.
>> Hey!
>> How you doing?
>> I loved that intro.
Thank you.
>> Thanks.
I just made it up.
>> Yeah, it was really good.
>> So I know, Gabby, as
the spiritual warrior,
the one promoting meditation
to people and tapping
into their infinite wisdom, but
what was Gabby like before she
uncovered all this awareness?
>> What was Gabby like?
Well, I think I was always
on a spiritual path,
even as a child.
My mother taught me to
meditate when I was very young.
I was brought to ashrams,
and named by the gurus,
and brought up in a
spiritual household.
So that seed was planted
when I was a child.
So I had that
spiritual seed planted.
But like most adolescents, I
chose to turn my back on it.
And when I was in high
school, I probably
had a little bit of
an existential crisis.
I knew that there was a world
beyond my physical sight,
but I also was very
challenged by the worlds
of the perceptions I
had chosen to hook into.
And so there was a real
issue for me around these two
to experiences that I
knew to be real for me.
As I got a little bit
older, I got very hooked
into that perceptual world.
So by the time I
was in my early 20s,
I was very hooked into
what I perceived myself
to be-- my credentials, my
access to the nightlife scene
in New York City, the
fast-paced environment
that I was growing growing
to understand more.
And I really got out of
alignment in many ways.
And so far that I
got to a place where
I was addicted to drugs
and alcohol, addicted
to work, addicted to
romance, addicted to food--
really hitting a bottom.
This was at the age of 25.
So I was blessed to
hit bottom at 25.
[LAUGHS]
That bottom was really
the catalyst for the woman
that I am today.
It was really the catalyst
for my greatest change.
I often love to
quote Rumi saying
the wound is the place
where the light enters you.
So that was my wound, and that
was where the light entered.
Because it was this
opportunity for me
to really surrender, and hit
my knees, and commit to a life
beyond the world of perceptions
that I had gotten so
hooked into.
>> Beautiful.
It's almost like you got your
midlife crisis out of the way.
>> I really did.
I really have to say I did.
And I am so glad that I did.
>> Because it's true that
sometimes that awakening can
take a lifetime for people.
Like, for my dad, "Food Matters"
is what sort of helped him,
and it wasn't until his 50s
until he had this awakening.
You know, we helped him
with food and nutrition.
And now, he's going
to chanting retreats.
He's gone off the deep
end, but it's like--
it's taken a while,
but that's his path.
It was beautiful.
>> Yeah.
And he got there.
>> He did.
So let's talk a little
bit about fear versus love
because I think this is
such an important topic.
What I've found in some of
the personal stories of people
that I've been speaking with
and in a lot of our lives
these days, a lot
of the goals we set,
a lot of the
relationships we attract,
a lot of the jobs that we
attract are out of fear,
fear of not having enough
money, fear of not being loved,
fear of not being included,
so we go and include
ourselves in all these
social environments,
as opposed to coming from
a place of love which
you speak about.
Why do you think we have
become so fearful as people?
And how can people
identify if their choices
are being made out of fear.
>> Well, the presence of
fear is a sign you're relying
on your own strength.
It's a beautiful message
from a course in miracles.
So when you identify
that you are
trying to control
your circumstances,
or make something happen, or try
to force something to happen on
your own time, or even just
even controlling something
in your mind, then you know
that there's fear present.
And any time in
our life when we're
relying on ourselves to create
or relying on ourselves to show
up, we're misaligned
with the truth
of who we are, and we're out of
alignment with a higher power.
So that's the presence of fear
is when we forget that there
is a higher power, that there
is a presence of love within us,
around us, an ever-present
energy of love
that's always supporting us.
It's when we forget
that we get into fear.
So the way that we unlearn that
fear is through reconditioning,
truly.
Truly reconditioning our thought
process, through conditioning
our belief systems,
prayer, meditation--
any type of spiritual
path is really
a mental reconditioning of
unlearning fear and remembering
love.
And the beauty of all this
that love doesn't go anywhere.
The love is always there.
And we can't actually block
it; we just forget to see it.
It's almost like
we're in a dream,
we're having a nightmare.
And we wake up from that
dream and we realize that--
the moment that we
turn on those lights,
we realize we're just
having a nightmare.
But we have to remember that
those lights are always on,
so we can turn those
lights on at any moment,
and we can wake up
from that dream.
>> So a lot of people around
this same sort of topic of fear
develop belief systems about
themselves that are potentially
holding them back from sort
of living their purpose,
living their true life-- so
a belief that I'm not pretty
enough, or I'm not white
enough, or dark enough skin,
or I'm not this, or
my hair's too crazy,
or my hair's too straight,
or I don't have enough money,
or I'm not from
the right family.
And a lot of the
people we've spoken
to have spoken about this, and
I'd like your opinion about it.
How can people identify if they
do have any limiting beliefs
that are holding them back?
And how can they try to sort
of recondition their thinking
if they have spotted
themselves or caught themselves
in the act?
>> Well, everybody has limiting
beliefs that are holding them
back.
We all have fear-based
limiting belief systems that
have been ingrained in us since
childhood-- belief systems
of, I'm not good enough,
or belief systems of,
who am I to be great?
Or, who am I to earn money?
Or, how could I possibly do that
thing I've been dreaming of?
And these belief
systems are stifling us,
and keeping us small,
and blocking us
from really living
in our highest
potential, in our
highest service,
and in our highest joy, truly.
So the first step to really
healing those belief systems
is to witness them--
to witness them without any
judgment, witness our judgment
of ourselves without
judgment, and to be
really conscious of what
are these belief systems,
how are they making us feel?
We can ask ourselves
those questions.
What is my limiting belief?
How is it making me feel?
And then going so far to say,
what experience from my past
is causing me to
believe this now?
Because all of it comes
from a root-cause condition.
It comes from a moment in time
when we separated from God,
when we separated
from love, and then we
have that experience
of separation,
and then we continue to build up
a world that is a false belief
system of fear, a false
belief system of inadequacy
and feelings of not
being good enough.
So we continue to
repurpose and replay
this story over and over
in so many different ways.
So we repurpose it
in our relationships,
or in our career, or we
have the same relationship,
just a different
body every time.
And so the quickest pathway
to creating that change
is to first and foremost
witness it and recognize it.
And we have to be the
witness of that fear
in order to change it.
And in that witnessing,
there's is also a willingness.
Because there's a willingness
to look at our crazy, really.
And we have to
look at our crazy,
and we to call it by its
name, which is "fear."
And that really begins the
journey of undoing the fear
and unlearning the fear.
The first step is
crucial because
without that willingness and
that desire to witness and look
at it, we can't have
the catalyst for change.
We can't have the
desire to change.
And then, we have
to really open up
to a belief system
beyond our own.
Because in order to
create that change
in the sense of the
transformation of a belief
system that has held
us back for a lifetime,
requires a spiritual connection,
a spiritual awareness,
in my opinion.
There's many things you can do.
There's many personal growth
tools that you can use.
And there's beautiful
therapy practices.
But there's spirit
and God in all that.
I believe that spirit works
through those doctors,
and works through
those self-help books,
and works through those
different practitioners,
and yoga teachers, and
meditation instructors,
or whoever you may be guided to.
And so when you open up with
a willingness to change,
you will be guided.
You'll be guided to the teacher,
the yoga instructor, the book--
maybe to this film.
>> Beautiful, beautiful.
Oh, and I love that, too.
Because even with-- I'm not sure
if you're familiar with-- is it
Marshall Rosenberg?
"Nonviolent Communication?"
It's an interesting
book, anyway.
It talks about
conflict resolution.
The first point is
just acknowledging
that there's that conflict or
there's that inner dialogue.
And that often does
a lot of the healing.
Even the awareness
itself can be the healing
because it's a realization.
>> It's a realization, but
you have to make sure that
you're witnessing
it without judgment.
Because often we can witness
our craziness or our attack
thoughts and judge
ourselves more
for having it for being
in that low space,
for having those
negative belief systems.
So we want to witness our
judgment without judgment.
>> That's true.
Because that
self-beration can lead it
to it even further worse.
>> Yes, it just
perpetuates the problem.
>> With regards to
manifestation, though,
since "The Secret" came
out, everyone's like,
I'm just going to
visualize my ideal life."
And I think that a lot
of the people that we've
spoken to in this film
have used visualizations.
I mean, Novak Djokovic
created a make-believe trophy
of Wimbledon when he was six.
He visualized winning
Wimbledon, becoming
number one in the world.
And he eventually, sort
of against all odds,
did on the same day.
It's a crazy story.
So these sort of things
happen all the time.
But if you could speak
about visualization
and its importance
and potential if you
want to touch on the difference
between wanting versus knowing?
I think it's a really
important distinction.
Because people visualize,
like, I want this.
I want that.
I want this.
And it's like hang on, maybe
you're a bit off there.
So tell me about your
thoughts on visualization,
its importance, and
power and that sort
of duality or dichotomy
around using that language.
>> Well, manifesting is all
about aligning with the energy
of joy.
So if a visualization
makes you feel good,
then you're manifesting.
If visualizing something that
you don't have doesn't make you
feel good, makes you
feel lack, or insecurity,
or as though
something's missing,
then that wouldn't be the
tool to use because it's
all about feeling good.
So that's why visualization
works for so many people
because holding that image that
makes you ignite a feeling,
and it's that feeling
that is magnetic.
It's that feeling that puts
you into alignment with God,
with the universe, with source.
In that space of
alignment, you become what
I call a "super attractor."
You start to magnetize
towards you what you desire.
You start to become a
match for the things
that you think
about, but as long
as you're in a presence of joy.
You're a match for the things
you think about even when
you're not in the
presence of joy,
but those are things
you don't want.
So if it's visualization
that makes you feel good,
and it empowers you, and it
lights you up to see that--
for me, I visualized myself
sitting next to Oprah Winfrey
for a decade before I did.
But it made me feel good.
I could feel the feeling of
being interviewed by Oprah,
or holding that
baby in your arms,
or having that abundance--
so making sure that
that feels good.
If there's anything about
that visualization that
doesn't feel good, then we
want to find another tool.
>> That's cool.
I guess that covers the
wanting component, too.
Because the wanting is like
acknowledging a sense of luck,
would you say that's
the reason why
that might be a
trap for people that
are using mental imagery or--
>> Well, there's a big
difference between wanting
and knowing.
There's nothing wrong
with wanting and wanting
when it's coming from a
place-- when there's a desire
and that desire is coming from
a place of a belief system of,
I can have this, I'm
capable, I'm worthy,
then that desire
has a lot of power.
That desire is really magnetic.
When that desire comes from
place of neediness, or control,
or in any way trying to
manipulate, then that that's
where we sort of
muddy the water.
That's where we begin to get
out of alignment with what
it is that we want to attract.
And we know the difference.
So we always have to
check in with ourselves.
How does this make me feel?
If I feel tense, or
if I feel anxious,
or if I feel like I'm
trying to control an outcome
or I'm obsessing
over a timeline,
then we're in the way.
We're manifesting.
When we're in an energy that's
released and surrendered,
that's when we can really let
those desires do their thing.
We can we can let
them magnetized
and multiply and
allow whatever it
is that we're attracting
to come into form
when it is the highest good.
Because I think the thing that
really gets people tripped up
is the when and the how.
When we are in the
space of knowing,
there's a beautiful message
from a course in miracles.
Those who are certain
of the outcome
can afford to wait and
wait without anxiety.
How awesome is that?
That's so good.
So when we're in that
place of knowing,
we can afford to wait
and wait without anxiety.
And the truth is that when
we have a belief system, when
we believe in a world
beyond our physical sight,
when we have any type of
metaphysical belief systems,
we can really begin to
develop a world view that's
less controlling and
less on our timeline,
and much more
surrendered and free.
And that's the lifestyle
that I've aimed for daily.
Every single day, I always say,
when I think I've surrendered,
I surrender more.
Because my goal is to just feel
good and allow my desires--
to be unapologetic about
my desires, but to not
get in the way, to not
try to control them.
>> Do you think that
has a lot to do--
and I'm probably jumping
ahead here a little bit--
with regards to intention?
Because I think that some
people might start a business,
for instance, or an
idea, and their intention
might be off kilter.
As opposed to having
an intention to truly
serve and to want to solve
an important problem,
their intention might be,
I just want to pay my bills
or I want a
Lamborghini so that I
can attract hot women or guys.
I mean, I'm not sure many
women would want a Lamborghini.
But do you think
that intention has
something to do with
being able to fully relax?
Because if you have
this sense of knowing
and you know your
intention is pure,
I can imagine it's a lot
easier just to be like,
I know this is going to happen.
It's OK.
>> Yes.
>> However, if you're sort
of off kilter with regards
to intention, could that
potentially affect it?
And how do people know if
they've got a pure intention
or not?
>> Well, here's the thing.
If you have an intention
to get something
because it feels good, then it's
going to come into your life.
But if you're just trying to
get that thing to feel good,
you'll keep staying on this
endless search for something
more, something
more, something more.
So the greatest intention
is to just feel good.
And so the wonderful thing
is that when we really
make our biggest
desire, our greatest
desire to feel
good, then the irony
is all the things come to us.
So we always think,
OK, I'll feel happy
when I have that car.
I'll feel happy when
I have that money.
But the complete
opposite is true.
When I'm happy,
I'll have that car.
When I'm happy, I'll
have that money.
We allow more to come to us
when we're in a state of grace.
So that's our work
is to really just get
into the intention
of feeling good.
The intention of attracting
something into your life
is totally fine.
Just let yourself attract
what you want, but always
in the pursuit of feeling good
and not because of the thing.
Let feeling good be first.
Of course when we're in any
type of intention to serve,
we will be very likely to
attract a lot towards us
because when we do dwell
in an energy of service,
we feel really good.
This keeps coming
back to feeling good.
You got that?
When we're in an energy of
service, we feel really good.
And that feeling is
what's attracting.
So that's why a service-oriented
business is always
going to thrive
because you're going
to be in a daily alignment
with the truth of who you are,
with your oneness, and your
service, and your gifting.
The gifting energy is
what really attracts.
>> Beautiful.
I love it.
Yeah, I don't know
if you can cover this
from a different angle.
But in the developed world--
and Brendan talks
about this a little bit
and a few other people,
especially the '80s and '90s,
we've become addicted
to this idea of, attain
material possessions and
we'll achieve happiness.
So I want to come from this
from another angle, if we could.
And yet, we have, I don't know,
30, 40 million people on SSI
and antidepressants.
We've got a vacuum of
happiness, and we've
got a real sense of
depression and anxiety
about the future and worry.
And yet, we're still
on this path to--
that I just need to get
that corner office job.
I just need to get this thing,
and it'll make me happy.
It's a bit of a different
angle than visualization
and manifestation we
just talked about that.
But how do you think
people can really
achieve a sense of happiness in
their life and a sense of peace
in their life?
>> I think when we
give up our objectives,
that's when we really
become happier.
It's a strange thing for me
to be saying that because I've
spent so many years very
goal-oriented, and really
mission driven.
And I really worked my
ass off for many years,
and I'm proud that I did
because, as a result,
I've published seven books, and
I've helped a lot of people,
and it's healed many people,
and served in many ways,
but I wasn't happy.
I'm admitting that.
I was happy along the way.
There was things that brought
me joy and excitement.
But there was something really,
really deeply missing for me.
The greatest joy that's come
for me is really just giving it
all up to saying,
how would you use me?
Getting out of the way and
letting people support me more,
and really focusing on the
things that really bring
me the most joy,
rather than the things
I think I need to accomplish.
>> I mean, this is an
interesting full circle for you
and your life, in a way.
Do you think this
is a little bit more
along the lines of Buddhism,
Buddhism practices.
There's this art.
One spiritual teacher in my
life, [INAUDIBLE],, godfather,
and thankfully, because
he brought up his kids
in ashrams--
very successful businessman,
too. he signed a 100 million
euro deal, and then go and chant
the Guru Gita for two hours,
you know?
>> Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE] yoga path, and
he connected me with that,
and that became the
guidance from "Food Matters"
over the last 10,
15 years, really.
And one of the practices
he talks about--
and I practice it, too, when
we hit a level of success,
and we had this one week
where we made like $1 million
in 10 days.
He was like, oh my god.
This is just transformative.
This was about, I don't
know, five years ago.
And I went down on the beach
and did this meditation
and just burned
it all in my mind.
Because I didn't
want to be owned
by this idea of just
more, more, more.
Do you think that you're sort
of moving to this path of not
being attached to
the outcome and just
being more present
in the process
and not caring
where that takes you
because you know that
you're just guided in a way?
>> Yeah, yeah.
I believe that there is a
tremendous amount of guidance
that I don't see with my
physical eye, most of the time.
Sometimes I see things.
But I believe in that guidance.
And I believe that
my primary job
is to just in alignment
with that source.
And as I align, I can
hear that guidance.
I can allow that guidance
to show up in my life,
open invisible doors--
write through me,
speak through me,
just move through me
in magnificent ways.
And trust me, there's
plenty of things
I get hung up about, things
that are out of my control,
but I continue to come back
to that space of surrender.
Because, as a human, I'm having
a human experience of wanting
and trying to control
timing of things
that are completely
out of my hands.
But those are momentary lapses.
And my fear-based belief
systems are far less aggressive
than they used to be.
And I've transformed
that fear into faith.
And I've chosen to allow that
faith muscle to be stronger.
So it's not that I measure
my spiritual success based
on how perfectly aligned I am.
I really measure it based
on how quickly I come back
to alignment.
>> That's cool because you're
sort of then not judging
yourself in a way.
You're not judging yourself
that you got out of alignment.
>> I can't.
I would be judging myself
all day because there's so
many moments of misalignment.
So I focus on the comeback rate.
>> That's cool.
That's cool.
I like it.
It's a good message
that I needed to hear.
How do you practice
getting in alignment?
I know that you're a huge
proponent of meditation.
Is that what you
suggest for everybody?
Or what sort of techniques,
or tools, or strategies
could people start
using in order
to get more in alignment,
to acknowledge that they are
perfect, that they
have everything,
that the universe
has their backs?
What do you
recommend for people?
>> I recommend any type of daily
conscious contact with a higher
power of your own understanding,
whether it be a prayer
in the morning,
or an affirmation,
or if you do any type of
yogic practice or meditation
practice, where you spend a
minimum of five minutes a day
connecting to a higher power
of your own understanding.
That's really my
aim is not to say,
this is what God is to
anyone, but to just crack
people open to choose
what that means to them.
So establishing that maybe
today your higher power
is just the presence
of joy within you.
Maybe your higher power is the
voice of your inner guidance
system.
Maybe your higher
power is the energy
of the universe-- whatever
you choose to believe in.
But consciously aligning
your thoughts with love
puts you into that state,
that energy presence.
So it begins with the thoughts.
It begins with transcending
your fear-based belief systems.
And it really begins the
moment that you wake up.
Because the moment you wake up,
you begin to create momentum.
And that momentum can take
you down to crazy town
or it can take you
to a place that you
want to stay in-- a really
good high-vibe energy that
can really be the
catalyst for a great day,
can really guide you through
those amazing, amazing
experiences, and
great relationships,
and feelings of
feeling fulfilled.
So it's the choice that you
make the moment you wake up.
And I believe having some kind
of way of tuning in early on
can really begin to change not
just your day, but your life,
and then, of course,
returning to those practices
throughout the day.
So those small practices--
maybe breath, maybe
choosing to ask yourself,
what's the best feeling
thought I can have right now?
So you're in a stuck place?
You're in a negative thought?
What's the best feeling
I can have right now?
And just thinking
your way out and so
many different situations.
I always say that happiness
is a choice we make.
So we have to, in any
given moment, choose again.
>> Yeah, that's really cool.
And I think that the priming
in the morning is so important.
One of the experts has said
in one of the interviews
that there's a
statistic-- and I'm
trapped to this
statistic at the moment,
because I'm on the
road, and I want
to check in with my
family every day.
But 86% of smartphone users
check their phone first thing
they do in the
morning, as opposed
to sort of having
control over their day.
What do you say to people
who are a little bit trapped
in giving their power
away in the morning?
>> Yeah, turn off your phone
before you go to sleep or put
it on airplane mode.
So I either have it off,
or on airplane mode,
or in another room.
Arianna Huffington actually
gave me this present one time.
She gave me this
little tiny box.
And it had silk
sheets and pillows,
and it was a bed for my iPhone.
[LAUGHS] It even had a
charger built into it.
And she's like, put your
iPhone outside your room
and tuck it in.
Because she's on such a
mission to help people sleep.
But I mean, I'm on a mission
to help people feel better.
You know, go get your Arianna
Huffington silk sheets
and bed for your iPhone.
Tuck it away.
Definitely do not begin
your day with a device.
It is terrifying
what happens when
we begin our days that way.
We go right into
fight or flight.
We have a trigger response.
We get hooked into
dramas and negativity.
We totally disconnect
from any opportunity
to connect with God because
we're off to the races, right?
So it's a simple experiment.
Wake up and check your phone.
And the next morning,
wake up and don't.
See how you feel.
See how your day goes.
>> That's true.
Because, I mean, look at
what generally comes up
on your phone.
It's like death, pain,
fire, destruction,
and I'm not enough.
Basically, it's a
recipe for disaster.
You're right.
>> The judgment device.
>> It's true.
How do you think people
can best heal past trauma?
Because I think a
lot of people, when
they start to develop a
sense of self awareness,
they're like, oh, shit, I'm
doing that because I was abused
as a child, or I was raped,
or my father was an alcoholic
and he was addicted, or
et cetera, et cetera.
Once people start to go deeper
in that self work and the self
sort of third-person awareness
of their actions and belief
systems, then they start to
go, jeez, how do I heal this?
I know you mentioned, you'll
get guided through a healer
or something like this.
But specifically around
trauma, how can people
try to find peace with that or
use that as a tool for change?
>> Trauma's an
interesting topic for me.
I actually remember
a childhood trauma.
So many of us--
I'm gonna speak for
those of us out there
who dissociate from
traumatic events,
particularly when we're a child.
And, for me, I tucked
it away and remember it
at 36, which was one of the
most terrifying and liberating
moments of my life.
But I never understood
why did I become
a drug addict and alcoholic.
Why did I become addicted to
relationships and co-dependent.
Why was I a food addict?
Why?
What was the why?
I thought everything
was so good.
But many of us, whether
we literally remember
the traumatic event or have
completely dissociated from it,
have many mechanisms for
running from that pain,
running from the trauma,
anesthesizing that trauma.
That's why we drink.
It's why we overwork.
It's why we overachieve.
It's why we self-sabotage.
And I believe that
trauma is the root cause
of most addictive behaviors.
So if there's addicts listening,
I've been sober 12 years now.
I believe that the
trauma was the root
cause of my addictive behavior,
because I was running.
I was anesthesizing.
I was avoiding.
I was doing anything I could
to not remember and not feel.
And the moment that the
cat was out of the bag,
and I actually did
have the recollection,
and the memory came back to
me, as terrifying and fearful
as that was for me, it was
also this incredible liberating
experience of finally
feeling like I
don't have to run anymore.
So in the last 2 and 1/2
years, really three years,
I've been getting my
life back because I
haven't been running anymore.
So the first step is
to face the trauma,
to accept that you
have been traumatized,
to accept that these
events are real,
and to choose to stop running.
That's scary.
Because we've been the ways
that we've been running
have been the ways that
we've "stayed safe,"
but there's really
nothing safe about that.
True safety lies in our
freedom from it, not
from the running from it.
So some things I
really recommend
for people who
are healing trauma
is emotional freedom
technique, EFT, otherwise known
as tapping.
It's something I teach and
practice in my own trauma
healing.
EMDR is eye movement,
desensitization,
and reprocessing.
Please make sure I
said that correctly.
And EMDR is a beautiful
practice of reprogramming
the neural pathways through
bilateral brain functioning
and really unlocking the
amygdala to release the trauma.
And with EFT and EMDR,
really what's happening
is you're healing the emotional
disturbance that lives
beneath the traumatic event.
And so when you can heal
that emotional disturbance,
then you can be released
of that fight or flight.
And this is a big suggestion.
When you're in the place of
recognizing identifying trauma
and becoming
prepared to heal it,
stay in prayer to find,
or attract, or seek
the right healer that's going
to be the safest healer for you.
Because my prayers
for healing guided me
to a team of very talented
therapists, spiritual healers,
EMDR experts, who
I've built up and I've
had the privilege of
being able to work with.
Now if someone is saying, OK,
I can't afford a therapist;
I can't afford that, there's
many resources out there.
There's plenty of EFT
videos for free on YouTube.
I promise to write
a book on trauma
that I'll give to anybody
that can afford it.
I'm on a mission
have helping people
heal their traumatic wounds
so that they can be free,
and freedom is on
the other side.
Many people feel like, what
is my life without this
because it's been
so debilitating.
But I do promise
anyone that's watching
that there is freedom
on the other side
because I'm
experiencing it myself.
It comes with commitment
and a real desire to change.
>> Yeah, it's fascinating
because there was a lady that
recently published a talk
from Ted about the A studies,
[INAUDIBLE] and so forth,
adverse childhood experiences
study and how a lot of children
that have gone through that
potentially not had the tools
or techniques to identify it
and help heal it suffer from
all sorts of increased rates
of chronic disease and so forth.
>> It messes up your microbiome.
Childhood trauma
affects your microbiome.
It affects your nervous
system on all levels.
I rake my teeth at night.
And these are all just sort
of subtle energy systems
that need to just be unwound.
So, yeah, I think that--
the other thing is,
for parents out there,
learning how to identify the
trauma in their children.
Because the sooner that you
can start to help a child
heal from a traumatic event,
you can redirect your life.
>> Let's talk a little bit
about stress, in particular.
Because we get stress in
so many different forms.
We get it from judging
ourselves for not being enough.
We get it from terrorists.
We get it from
judgment in a way of,
I have less money
than that person.
And then we get it in
terms, of I'm late for work
or I need to be there.
So we're living in 24/7 stress.
You know, the World
Health Organization
is like, stress is
going to be the biggest
cause of chronic degenerative
disease in the next sort
of title 20 years because of how
it affects our immune system.
What are ways that people can
move through stress with more
grace and ease and start to find
a better path through stress?
>> So one of the things
that we have to do to heal
our relationship to stress--
it's a relationship--
is to give ourself
permission to slow down.
I think that a
lot of people live
in a chronic state of stress
because of the expectations
that they place upon themselves
and also the trauma, right?
So they're running from that
trauma in many different ways.
They're avoiding feeling.
So when we're avoiding
feeling, we're doing.
In that excessive
doing, we're stressing.
And that's often a
huge cause of stress.
Or there's a belief system,
like we spoke about earlier,
a belief system of limitations.
So I'm not good enough unless
I'm doing, or creating,
or making things happen and
that creates a stressed state.
So there's is a
huge, huge element
in healing stress
about giving yourself
permission to do nothing.
Give yourself
permission to slow down.
permission to be still.
And, of course, you're
thinking, OK, well,
I have to go to work
every day, Gabby.
Or, I have five children,
how do I not do nothing?
Even for a moment in
your day, to do nothing,
that's why meditation is so
effective, and so important
in stress reduction.
One of the greatest
ways to heal stress
is transcendental meditation.
Two 20-minute mantra-based
meditations twice a day
has the power to completely
lower your cortisol levels
way more than even a
full night's sleep.
So there's tools out there.
But the first step is
to really give yourself
permission to slow down
and giving yourself
permission to do nothing.
And that nothingness can come
on your meditation pillow
or that nothingness can come--
even if you give yourself
five minutes in the morning
to sit with your
tea and look out
the window with no
device near you at all,
with no to-do list in your
mind but to do nothing.
I can speak to this with
authority and conviction
because I have only learned
it in the last month.
You're really getting me
at a good time, James.
So in the past
month, I hit a bottom
with a physical condition
because that came about because
of stress.
And this was really recently.
This was two months ago.
So, for me, unfortunately,
bottoms work for me.
Bottoming out is usually the
catalyst for great change.
So I hit another bottom
and I decided to redirect.
So I had no more
tolerance for it.
Sometimes we have to
become no longer tolerant
of the behaviors that we have
if we want to truly change them.
I think that was part of what
helped me get clean and sober.
I was no longer tolerant
of feeling like crap
and feeling hung over.
So this was the same.
I was no longer
tolerant of putting
my body under that
type of stress
and putting my life
in such danger.
So I made a big commitment
to reorganize and redirect.
And that didn't
mean that I didn't
have a lot of responsibilities.
Because all of this started
I was on a book tour.
I had travel.
There was plenty of things
I had to show up for.
But I was still able to
make that mental shift,
even in the midst of
showing up for life.
Because a lot of people
say, oh, it sounds so nice.
You can just go off
and be at an ashram.
That's not what happened for me.
I created an inner ashram.
I made the commitment
to change my intentions
and change my behavior.
And the irony is the pulling
back, how much I pulled back,
how much I slowed down--
I had one of most successful
months of my entire life--
one of the most successful
months of my entire life.
And it was one of
the months that I
did the least amount
that I'd ever done,
even showing up for everything,
but just doing less--
because a lot of that doing
is sort of unnecessary doing--
and allowing myself to
receive more support,
and allowing myself
even just moments
like sitting in the
bathtub in the morning
and staring out the
window for 10 minutes
was a real way of reorganizing
that pattern of stress.
Because stress is an
addictive pattern.
So like any addiction,
we have to replace it
with a new behavior.
And, in my case, I started
replacing it with many new
behaviors-- cooking for
myself, nourishing myself,
taking a bath, going for a walk,
listening to music and actually
letting the music move
me, saying no to things--
saying no, saying no, saying
no, and then saying no more.
And when I said
yes to things I had
to say yes to because I
had chosen to do something,
I had to show up for it, I did
it with a different energy,
did it with a
different attitude.
Rather than trying
to overly achieve,
I just said, let me have a
good time while I'm doing this.
And then, once again, making
fun more of a priority
is one of the greatest ways
to decrease your stress.
>> That's really beautiful
because I think you're really
touching on this
masculine-feminine energy.
Because I got deep into David
Deida's work a number of years
ago, got recommended it three
times by three different people
on three different continents.
I'm like, that's it
I'm going to do it.
So [INAUDIBLE] I was like,
well, OK, game changer.
Then that was on
New Year's Day, so I
call it New Year's Deida now.
Every New Year's Day, I
read a David Deida book.
But one of the things
that came out there
was really understanding
that masculine-feminine.
And I see it in business a lot.
Like, I get these moments
of just extraordinary months
or sometimes years of
extraordinary drive,
then like just push,
push, push at any cost.
And then, like you
said, sometimes there's
that experience of just
tapping more into the feminine
and knowing that things are
going to be OK and relaxing.
And then, things show up.
Things happen.
And I've noticed that, I guess
that that experience of being
in the midst of craziness but
then adopting that ideology
is--
because you can have
the crazy schedule,
but just-- you know what?
I'm just going to show up.
I'm going to be present.
I'm going to be there.
And I know that things
will work out perfectly.
And then, to me, that's
a belief system in a way.
>> And everything does work out
perfectly when you're in that
place, when you're in that
place of non-resistance.
Because it's our resistance
that makes things tough,
that creates a feeling
of, I can't get that done;
or, it's such a struggle,
or I'm not having fun,
but I'm achieving.
But the moment we start
to release the resistance,
we just start to feel
an energy behind us,
just moving us,
and directing us.
And we can almost feel
as though we can do more
without even trying
that hard, or we
can achieve more or attract
more without doing that much.
And so it's really about getting
into a space of non resistance.
>> How do people not react?
Because there's so many
things that get thrown at us--
death, failure, didn't get the
job, that business idea didn't
work or so forth.
And years and years of
spiritual practice, I've
started to get to a point where
I'm like, oh, how exciting.
If something doesn't go
right, I'm like, oh, wow.
What's seeking to emerge
from this, you know?
But that's taken me a long time.
And I sort of play with
it now, which might
seem crazy to a lot of people.
But how do you think people can,
amidst the craziest opposition,
craziest tragedy, try to find
message, try to find hope,
try to find peace, try to
find even the perfection
and know that it's
there to serve them?
How can they get to that point?
>> Well, I think that having
spiritual faith gives you
a foundation where you can
trust even when things go wrong,
and you can believe it
when you don't see it,
and you can feel connected,
even when something has been
devastating.
And that connection
is what we really
need to rely on most
when things go wrong.
It's when things are going right
that we can forget that we have
a spiritual path, but
it's when things go
wrong we were deeply need it.
We always truly need it.
So what I have found is
it's not about not reacting
when something happens.
Because some of the process
of returning to love
is allowing yourself to
be present with the fear,
and the emotions,
and the feelings that
do arise, and then witnessing
those fear-based belief
systems, and offering them up
through prayer, offering them
up to your higher power,
and really saying,
reveal to me how I can
see this with light.
Help me see the miracle in this.
And miracles are seen in
light, so really asking
for that vision to be shifted.
But we can't always
do it on our own.
And that's what having a
spiritual practice is about
is trusting that there's
is an intermediary,
that there is an
inner wisdom that
can take your
fear-based belief system
and bridge those thoughts
from that fear-based world
to the light, to the love, to
the magnitude, to the healing,
to the lesson, to all
the things that we
can perceive with a more
positive perspective.
So we don't have
to expect ourselves
to make that shift on our
own, particularly when
something tragic has occurred.
That's where prayer comes in.
We allow ourselves
to humbly pray,
to offer up those
fear-based belief
systems and those
tragedies, and help
us perceive them differently.
And just being in that
prayer, you'll be led.
>> Beautiful.
How can people, in a sort
of similar vein around,
I guess jealousy or
judgment-- because there's
a lot of times when people start
on the path of tapping more
into their infinite
wisdom and handing over
their power to a
divine force, but then
find themselves jealous
of someone else's success
or really judging themselves
because they haven't
achieved a certain amount.
And then, how do people sort
of move out of, I guess--
I don't mean to attack
[INAUDIBLE] horrible language.
It's very Australian
of me, very brutal,
but how do we approach
this from another angle?
Especially, I think,
around jealousy
of other people's success?
It's a problem that a lot
of people come up against.
Like, I'm so spiritual, but
that bitch, she got this.
>> Oh, it's happening
all the time.
Yeah.
>> How can people develop an
awareness of that and try to be
more humble or spiritual
in that process?
>> I've seen a lot of people
wake up spiritually but still
want to hold on
to their judgment.
What I would say
to those folks is,
if you want to
truly know what it's
like to be in
alignment with God,
then forgive that person
that you've judged.
Truly forgive.
Learn the practice
of forgiveness.
Learn what it means to transform
a judgment into a holy love.
Learn that.
Really surrender to that.
I wrote a whole book on
judgment because it's
such a pervasive issue.
When we're jealous of someone,
often what we're jealous of
is what we see in someone else
is really a part of ourselves
that we haven't developed yet.
So we're not necessarily--
we project out onto them our
own feelings of disappointment
that we haven't allowed
ourselves to truly develop
those parts of ourselves yet.
And it's not about
the other person ever.
The other person is merely a
mirror reflecting back to you
the disowned parts
of your shadow.
So if you're truly
on a spiritual path,
you'll look at that jealousy.
You'll witness that judgment.
You'll ask yourself,
what is the wound that
lives beneath this
judgment and how can I
begin the journey of
healing that wound?
And there's many, many
steps that we can take.
I've written an entire
book on the topic.
And there's
practices that we can
take to begin to heal
those perceptions.
Because anyone that's
chosen the spiritual path,
I know they want to feel good.
Anyone that's watching
this film right now,
they want to feel good.
You want to feel good.
That's what they want.
So be willing to see your part.
Be willing to see how
what you're projecting out
is something that you
don't want to feel.
That's big.
>> Big.
With the "Judgment Detox," I
mean, why did you write it?
And why was it an
important piece
of work for you at this time?
>> I wrote a book called
"The Universe Has Your Back,"
and there was a chapter in that
book about how we have to heal
our judgment to get closer to
our connection to the universe.
And when I finished
writing that chapter,
I put my hands down on the
keyboard and I was like, oh,
no.
This is a book.
[LAUGHS] And I wasn't even
done writing the other book.
But I knew that I had
a book in front of me.
So right away, I started
writing that book.
And I wrote it right in the
middle of the 2016 election
when judgment was just
at an all-time high.
There was so much division,
not just in my country,
but all throughout the world.
It became really clear to
me that not only politically
where we divided, but even
just daily on our social media
feed we were creating division.
I knew that this
wasn't just an issue
that I had to show up for
because I was seeing it
all around me.
I knew it was something I
had to show up for myself.
Because my own judgments
were getting the best of me.
My own judgments were
keeping me separate.
They were keeping
me disconnected
from a God of my
own understanding.
So I wanted to heal
that separation.
So I often write my
books because I've
got something to heal.
And so as a result of
writing this six-step process
of reframing your judgment
and releasing the beliefs that
are holding you back, I healed
in the most miraculous ways
and the most incredible ways.
I have such a different
experience of judgment now.
When I feel judged,
my reaction now
is not necessarily-- of course
to pray for the person who's
judging me, but my
immediate reactions
when I feel judged
by someone else
is to instantly do
something kind to make
somebody else feel good.
That is my knee-jerk reaction,
as a result of taking myself
through these steps is
that I no longer have
tolerance for even engaging
in the experience of feeling
judged.
When I witness myself judging,
I catch myself immediately,
and I take myself
through the steps.
I can unwind that
judgment within moments.
And my comeback
rate is incredible.
Because I've made a
commitment to dissolve
those boundaries with love.
So the steps in the
book are very crucial.
We have to witness our
judgment without judgment.
And then, we have to
honor the wounds that
live beneath the judgment.
And we can use things like
emotional freedom technique
and different practices to heal
those core wounds that we've
talked about a
lot here, and then
begin to pray to
offer up, to put love
on the altar as the third step.
To offer up that desire
to change through prayer.
And then to see
for the first time
is the fourth step,
which is beginning
to look at the people who
we've held grievances toward
and, instead of focusing
on those grievances,
focus on their light.
So choose to see what is
magnificent about them.
Choose to see the grace that
they bring to the world.
Choose to see them in the
light of who they are.
And even if we can't because
it's someone that's hurt us
and harmed us so
deeply, we can see them
as the great opportunity
for our spiritual awakening.
And then there's a whole step
by meditating for oneness,
and then the final
step, which is
bringing your shadows to the
light through forgiveness.
So these are
cumulative practices
that build upon the next to
get the reader to a place
where they can really undo
the behavior of judgment.
And it's an addictive pattern.
Like any addiction, you have to
replace it with a new pattern,
as I said before.
So we take our judgment, and
we do something else instead.
And we witness our judgment,
And the more you do that,
the more you get to a place
where you are no longer
tolerant of that craziness.
That's cool.
And I think that
it always comes up.
I mean, [INAUDIBLE]
godfather, who's
a spiritual mentor in my
life talked about how we tend
to have this belief system
that we're separate,
that we're not connected.
And it's become
pervasive in our culture.
It's become pervasive in our
politics, like you mentioned.
It's become pervasive in, I
like this music, not this--
every area of our culture,
we create division,
and in race as well.
And that's not a truth that--
it's not a spiritual
truth, I don't believe.
And one of the
lessons he got given
was, when you see
separation, laugh at it,
because it's not true.
It's a facade.
>> Right.
Beautiful.
>> And I really try to catch
myself whenever I see division.
So in a sort of
finishing statement here,
could you explain that
this sort of dilemma
that we have with
separation in this world,
all the different
areas where there
are separation, how that is not
a spiritual truth by aligning
with the oneness and
with that connection,
we can start to heal ourselves,
the world, the planet,
realign ourselves,
feel more fulfilled,
and feel more connected and
feel that sense of love that's
ever present and not forsaken
or taken away from us.
>> So we all have
the same problem,
and we all have
the same solution.
And the problem is we
separated from God.
Period.
That's the problem.
And the solution is to realign
with God and to remember love.
So we separated from love
when we started to build up
the belief systems of the world
when we started to believe in
less than, or on the
playground, and things happen.
We see that I'm different or
whatever those stories are,
as we're children, and
we believe those stories,
and we replay them
and repurpose them.
But it's in any given
moment, an opportunity
to do exactly what you said is
to laugh at the tiny met ideas,
to laugh at the judgment,
to laugh at the separation,
and even really be the
witness of the havoc
that it plays in your life.
So it's like any belief system--
separation is the greatest
belief system we have to undo,
and it's at the root of
all these other problems,
the feelings of not being good
enough, the feelings of fear,
the feelings of inadequacy,
the feelings of being better
than or less than.
At the root of all
that is separation.
And so through any type of--
any spiritual path--
I mean, I have many
that I follow--
any type of spiritual
path, really, truly,
your own inner wisdom,
developing that,
that belief system and
that inner guidance system
will begin to get you on a
journey and a path of undoing
the belief system of separation
and remembering the belief
system of oneness.
So my advice to
anyone listening,
if they feel separate
and alone, and they
feel under attack or attacking,
that the work we have to do
is to get into a daily
practice of realigning
with the belief system of love.
And that will come
in many forms,
and I pray for everyone
watching to find
the teachers, and the
healers, and the prayers,
and the meditations,
and the practices that
will be their guide to
bring their thoughts
and bridge their thoughts
from this world of separation
and fear back to a
world of love and light.
And as I said earlier,
the light never left us;
we just forgot to look at it.
>> I love that.
It's so beautiful.
That's such a great way to wrap.
Final thought.
Is there any quotes or
lessons [INAUDIBLE] of course
a miracle's a lot,
that really stand out
for you as being important for
people on this path, that you
hold as your most
important quote,
that you draw a lot of faith on,
that you want to share with us?
>> A beautiful quote is that the
secret to prayer is to forget
what we think we need.
Because we get so hooked
into, I need this thing,
or I want it on
my time, or I have
to have this to
feel good enough.
But when we forget what we think
we need and we offer it up,
then we can truly receive.
That's when we can
really receive.
[MUSIC PLAYING]